Lastly, we will introduce
you to Spark GraphX.
After this video,
you will be able to describe GraphX is,
explain how vertices and
edges are stored in GraphX, and
describe how Pregel works at a high level.
GraphX is Apache Spark's Application
Programming Interface for
graphs and graph-parallel computation.
GraphX uses a property graph model.
This means, both nodes.
And edges in a graph can
have attributes and values.
In GraphX, the node properties
are stored in a vertex table and
edge properties are stored
in an edge table.
The connectivity information, that is,
which edge connects which nodes,
is stored separately from the node and
edge properties.
GraphX is built on special RDDs for
vertices and edges.
VertexRDD represents a set of vertices,
all of which have an attribute called A.
The EdgeRDD here extends
this basic edge storing by
the edges in columnar format on
each partition for performance.
Note that VertexID are defined
to be unique by design.
The edge class is an object
with a source vertex and
destination vertex and an edge attribute.
In addition to the vortex and
edge views of the property graph,
GraphX also has triplet view.
The triplet view logically joins
vortex and edge properties.
GraphX has an operator that
can execute operations
from the Pregel library for
graph analytics.
This Pregel operator executes
in a series of super steps
which defines a messaging protocol for
vertices.
We will revisit graph analytics and
using GraphX in more detail in
course five of the specialization.
In summary, Spark can be used for
graph parallel computations.
GraphX uses special RDDs for
storing vertex and edge information.
And the pregel operator works
in a series of super steps.